README.md, before:

# react-native-row

A wrapper around the react-native `<View/>` component enabling concise assignment of flexbox layout properties. 

The idea is to keep JSX as clean as possible, while removing the need to manage stylesheet declarations for common positioning needs. 

### Installation

    npm install react-native-row

    
### Basic Usage

Use react-native-row as little or as much as you want. For instance, you could just use the `<Row/>` to replace 

   
        
        
    <View style={{flexDirection: "row"}}/>
    
    
with:

    import Row from react-native-row    
        
    <Row/>
        
        
        
But if you are going to the trouble of installing this module consider these other benefits and weigh the option of reducing stylesheet usage in favor of inline shorthands. The first of which is `dial`.
    

### Dial

One of the most DRY features of react-native-row is the `dial` prop which allows you to replace


    <View style={{flex: 1, flexDirection:"row", justifyContent:"center" alignItems:"center"}}>   
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </View>

with:
         
    <Row dial={5} flex>
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </Row>
        


The child components of `Row` are positioned according to the position of the `dial` number on a phone dial pad. In this case `5` is centered along both axis and, because this is a `Row`, children are horizontally aligned.  
    
  
    
<img src="examples/example1.jpg" width="180">


Optionally import `View` from this package instead of from `react-native` and all of your `<View/>` components can use dial as well.

    import Row, { View } from react-native-row 
        
    <View dial={5} flex>
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </View>
    
<img src="examples/example2.jpg" width="180">

Use `View` without replacing the core RN `View` like so

    import Row, { View as DialView } from 'react-native-view'
     
    <DialView dial={5} flex>
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </DialView>  
    
    
You can also use `spaceBetween` to override `justifyContent`:


    <View dial={5} spaceBetween flex>
        
    ...
    

    
<img src="examples/example3.jpg" width="180">

and `spaceAround` 
    

    
    <View dial={5} spaceAround flex>
    
      
    ...
    
<img src="examples/example4.jpg" width="180">
   

and use `stretch` to override `alignItems`


    <View dial={5} stretch flex>
        
    ...
    

    
    
### Flex

    <Row flex/>
    
does this

    <View style={{flex:1, flexDirection: "row"}} />
    
or

    <Row flex={3}/>
    
is

    <View style={{flex:3, flexDirection: "row"}} />

### Reverse

Use reverse to change `row` to `row-reverse` or `column` to `column-reverse`:

    <Row reverse />
    <View reverse />

### Margin, Padding, and Position shorthand

Extra benefits are gained by using react-native-view instead of the core `View` in that you can use shorthands for `margin` and `padding` styles that are based on the css shorthand convention

    <Row margin={[20,15]}/>
    
    
becomes

    <View style={{flexDirection: "row", marginVertical: 20, marginHorizontal: 15}} />

#### margin

Shorthand   | Style Result 
------------ | -------------
`margin={20}` | `{margin: 20}`
`margin={[20]}` | `{marginVertical: 20}`
`margin={[20,15]}` | `{marginVertical: 20, marginHorizontal: 15 }`
`margin={[20,15,10]}` | `{marginTop: 20, marginHorizontal: 15, marginBottom: 10}`
`margin={[20,15,10,5]}` | `{marginTop: 20, marginRight: 15, marginBottom: 10, marginLeft: 5}`

#### padding

Shorthand   | Style Result 
------------ | -------------
`padding={20}` | `{padding: 20}`
`padding={[20]}` | `{paddingVertical: 20}`
`padding={[20,15]}` | `{paddingVertical: 20, paddingHorizontal: 15}`
`padding={[20,15,10]}` | `{paddingTop: 20, paddingHorizontal: 15, paddingBottom: 10}`
`padding={[20,15,10,5]}` | `{paddingTop: 20, paddingRight: 15, paddingBottom: 10, paddingLeft: 5}`

#### pos

Shorthand   | Style Result 
------------ | -------------
`pos={0}` | `{position: "absolute", top:0, left: 0, bottom: 0, right: 0}`
`pos={[0]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:0}`
`pos={[10,10]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:10, left:10}`
`pos={[0,1,0]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:0, left:1, bottom:0}`
`pos={[null,null,0,0]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:null, left:null, bottom:0, right:0}`

#### onPress

The `Row` or `View` component will become either `TouchableHighlight`(iOS) or `TouchableNativeFeedback`(Android) when the onPress prop is provided to either.
Other props will be passed to the component as usual. 

    <Row flex dial={1} onPress={() => null}/>



Contributions and issues very much welcome!

Commit message:

feature/touchable - add Platform import, add flex back, update README

README.md, after:

# react-native-row

A wrapper around the react-native `<View/>` component enabling concise assignment of flexbox layout properties. 

The idea is to keep JSX as clean as possible, while removing the need to manage stylesheet declarations for common positioning needs. 

### Installation

    npm install react-native-row

    
### Basic Usage

Use react-native-row as little or as much as you want. For instance, you could just use the `<Row/>` to replace 

   
        
        
    <View style={{flexDirection: "row"}}/>
    
    
with:

    import Row from react-native-row    
        
    <Row/>
        
        
        
But if you are going to the trouble of installing this module consider these other benefits and weigh the option of reducing stylesheet usage in favor of inline shorthands. The first of which is `dial`.
    

### Dial

One of the most DRY features of react-native-row is the `dial` prop which allows you to replace


    <View style={{flex: 1, flexDirection:"row", justifyContent:"center" alignItems:"center"}}>   
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </View>

with:
         
    <Row dial={5} flex>
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </Row>
        


The child components of `Row` are positioned according to the position of the `dial` number on a phone dial pad. In this case `5` is centered along both axis and, because this is a `Row`, children are horizontally aligned.  
    
  
    
<img src="examples/example1.jpg" width="180">


Optionally import `View` from this package instead of from `react-native` and all of your `<View/>` components can use dial as well.

    import Row, { View } from react-native-row 
        
    <View dial={5} flex>
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
      <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </View>
    
<img src="examples/example2.jpg" width="180">

Use `View` without replacing the core RN `View` like so

    import Row, { View as DialView } from 'react-native-view'
     
    <DialView dial={5} flex>
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'powderblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'skyblue'}} />
        <View style={{width: 50, height: 50, backgroundColor: 'steelblue'}} />
    </DialView>  
    
    
You can also use `spaceBetween` to override `justifyContent`:


    <View dial={5} spaceBetween flex>
        
    ...
    

    
<img src="examples/example3.jpg" width="180">

and `spaceAround` 
    

    
    <View dial={5} spaceAround flex>
    
      
    ...
    
<img src="examples/example4.jpg" width="180">
   

and use `stretch` to override `alignItems`


    <View dial={5} stretch flex>
        
    ...
    

    
    
### Flex

    <Row flex/>
    
does this

    <View style={{flex:1, flexDirection: "row"}} />
    
or

    <Row flex={3}/>
    
is

    <View style={{flex:3, flexDirection: "row"}} />

### Reverse

Use reverse to change `row` to `row-reverse` or `column` to `column-reverse`:

    <Row reverse />
    <View reverse />

### Margin, Padding, and Position shorthand

Extra benefits are gained by using react-native-view instead of the core `View` in that you can use shorthands for `margin` and `padding` styles that are based on the css shorthand convention

    <Row margin={[20,15]}/>
    
    
becomes

    <View style={{flexDirection: "row", marginVertical: 20, marginHorizontal: 15}} />

#### margin

Shorthand   | Style Result 
------------ | -------------
`margin={20}` | `{margin: 20}`
`margin={[20]}` | `{marginVertical: 20}`
`margin={[20,15]}` | `{marginVertical: 20, marginHorizontal: 15 }`
`margin={[20,15,10]}` | `{marginTop: 20, marginHorizontal: 15, marginBottom: 10}`
`margin={[20,15,10,5]}` | `{marginTop: 20, marginRight: 15, marginBottom: 10, marginLeft: 5}`

#### padding

Shorthand   | Style Result 
------------ | -------------
`padding={20}` | `{padding: 20}`
`padding={[20]}` | `{paddingVertical: 20}`
`padding={[20,15]}` | `{paddingVertical: 20, paddingHorizontal: 15}`
`padding={[20,15,10]}` | `{paddingTop: 20, paddingHorizontal: 15, paddingBottom: 10}`
`padding={[20,15,10,5]}` | `{paddingTop: 20, paddingRight: 15, paddingBottom: 10, paddingLeft: 5}`

#### pos

Shorthand   | Style Result 
------------ | -------------
`pos={0}` | `{position: "absolute", top:0, left: 0, bottom: 0, right: 0}`
`pos={[0]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:0}`
`pos={[10,10]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:10, left:10}`
`pos={[0,1,0]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:0, left:1, bottom:0}`
`pos={[null,null,0,0]}` | `{position: "absolute", top:null, left:null, bottom:0, right:0}`

### onPress

The `Row` or `View` component will become either `TouchableHighlight`(iOS) or `TouchableNativeFeedback`(Android) when the onPress prop is provided to either.
Other props will be passed to the component as usual. 

    <Row flex dial={1} onPress={() => null}/>

Keep in mind the quirks with TouchableHighlight when using onPress. Only one child and consider setting `underlayColor="#fff"` to match the element underneath.



Contributions and issues very much welcome!
